Well, hello, everyone. I am joined here today by Katherine Kretschmer. You might have an
association with her with Alex from Self Hosted. They've been kind enough to have me in their
home this week, which has been super fun. We've got to know each other a heck of a lot. And
Katherine, how are you doing?
I'm good. Thank you.
Yeah. How is it feeling being in a podcast seat? Because this might be one of your first
experiences.
This is definitely my first ever experience.
Wow.
And it feels more than a little weird to have a microphone pointed straight at my face.
You get used to it, it kind of fades into the foreground.
I hope so.
Try not to look at it.
At the moment, it's staring right at me.
It becomes your friend eventually.
Maybe.
Thanks for joining me and doing this. I know we're kind of squeezing it in last minute.
I'm leaving tomorrow. But this is a real treat that we're able to do this. So thanks. I wanted
to ask you a question about being here in this home specifically. I've gotten to get
a taste of Alex's sort of environment, of course, was self hosted and everything that
he does in his curiosities around automation, home automation, and his day job at Red Hat
and things like that. Of course, the home has a feel of that kind of stuff, right? Some
experimenting and tinkering happening a little bit all the time.
Yeah, just a little.
How is that for you as someone's spouse who has to kind of live in that space and deal
with the technology on a daily basis?
Well, I mean, obviously, I'm married to him. So I'm quite fond of his of him being him.
And all of them. I don't think I can underestimate how much how many little projects he has on
the go at any one time, whether it's 3D printing something, or physically woodworking and making
things, or all of the self hosted server building, home automation things. So because of that,
I think what most people don't realize is that it's constantly changing. And that you're
asking me at the moment for a snapshot in time of November 2019. And probably if you
were to ask me again, in a month's time, especially since Alex will have had some time off for
Thanksgiving and Christmas, everything will have changed. Because he loves playing with
it and upgrading it. And that's, I think, the fun for him. It's not having a finished
system.
And all of these things are constantly evolving, which is kind of the beauty of them. It's
like, there's always something more to learn something more to upgrade.
And it's always improving. Right. And occasionally, things break along the way. And I try not
to compare it with a standard home. Oh, it's finished. It's not it's not it's a the whole
house is a project.
And I suppose you kind of have to just sort of accept that if you're gonna and he's very
aware of things that are essential and things that are not, if it's something to do with
say, the heating of the air conditioning, he is very careful not to leave it in a half
finished state, because we don't want to be overheating on a hundred degree day. Yeah,
or under heating, but things like lights where there's actually a switch somewhere. They're
currently in upgrade mode. That's fine, because I can just go and use the switch like a peasant.
A lowly not Alex, maybe. I found myself the other morning I woke up a little bit earlier
than both of you. I think you might have been out of the house actually at that point. And
I found myself trying to figure out how to turn the TV on. Because because I've only
been here a few days, that's never anything I had to do before. And and Alex was sleeping
and I didn't want to wake him. So I was like, Hmm, okay, I think I can figure this out.
So I tried, you know, the obvious remotes and things like that. And nothing was working.
I was like, Okay, I imagine this is probably plugged into something that is automated,
right? And sure enough, I had to like, reach to the back and hit the the switch on whatever
he's got back there. And it all worked, which is fine. But that sort of backup, yeah, is
certainly appreciated, right? Yeah, definitely. And I imagine that leads to the success, the
eventual success of these integrations for you into your lifestyle, because it's like,
if it doesn't work during the like experimented mentation phase, okay, well, maybe it's a
bit more of a pain, but it eventually gets there, right? Yeah, it's not the end of the
world. Yeah. There are some things that have not changed in a while, because some things
have been actually I'd say the TVs are pretty safe bet. Okay, just say turn on TV. And that
one has worked for a good few years now. And it's not changed. But the TV used to be one
of those ones that maybe five years ago, maybe more than that. Maybe more like eight years
ago, used to frustrate me, I have to say, because sometimes I'd get to the point where
I just can't make this thing work. And he would be out of work or something. And I'd
end up with propping the iPad up. Oh, like you're on an airplane or something. Yeah,
just sat on the table with his iPad propped up just like I've given up.
Well, especially during those moments when you would just want to relax typically around
the television, right? Yeah, sometimes that's actually led me to
being more productive, like a couple of occasions, I can't get this thing to turn on, right,
I'll have to go and do something else. But I don't think that's happened for at least
five years since the TV is. I mean, back in the old days, there was no home assistant,
Xbox was doing all of this with various different apps. And I see little weird bits of electronic
circuit boards. I don't know. I don't know. I just see in soldering things and nod a smile.
So it sounds like it was a bit piecemeal before. Yeah, I think so. I mean, you tried to integrate
like an Xbox, they had some sort of home automation thing back in the day. He tried to use that,
but it wasn't very good. And the whole voice recognition back then wasn't very good.
It's come a long way. Yeah. And then he went through a period where
he had one of those Harmony remote that had about a million buttons on and he programmed
all of them to do different things with lights. So you had to use the one remote to rule them
all to do everything. And that was pretty good, but it could get itself turned in not
sometimes as a device. How does it feel for you now that some of
those things are more stable? Like has it brought a quality of life to you specifically
that you appreciate? Yeah, actually, I don't think I realize it
until I go maybe stay in other people's homes. And then I realize, I think one of the big
ones that I love is that I can lie in bed and say lights out and I don't have to get
up and I don't have to remember to turn the main light off before I get into bed. I don't
have to reach over when I'm really comfy and settled and turn the light off on the nightstand.
And then we go and stay in a hotel and I'm irritated by the fact I have to move to turn
the lights out. It sounds like a little thing to anyone who
hasn't experienced it, but it's a real quality of life upgrade to not have to do that.
Absolutely. And I've experienced that here as well. We've kind of got into a groove
and Alex will typically say, you know, lights out, bedtime routine, right. And then 20 minutes
later, like the lights just slowly dimmed down in the entire house. So it's lovely that
actually was in order to try and manipulate us because we had this tendency that we would
go to bed and then we would both sit there. I would sit there reading a book and I would
read until far too late. And he would be reading Reddit or articles online and thinking of
things which sometimes led to him jumping back out of bed and go, oh, I've got an idea.
So it was kind of our way of being stricter with ourselves to make ourselves have a better
sleep work balance and not lie in bed for two hours reading a book when I need to be
up in the morning. So we say bedtime routine and we get a reply, bedtime routine initiated.
And that gives us enough time to let the dog out, come back in and the lights are out in
20 minutes and we go to sleep.
And you're also out in 20 minutes.
Yeah. And it's good. It's got to the point where the dog now hears that and he jumps
up and walks to the back door because he knows bedtime routine means that he has to go out
first and he goes out and then he just trots to the bedroom.
That's fascinating. Because I, you know, when you look at some home automation stuff when
you're uneducated perhaps it feels like, or uninitiated maybe is the better word, it feels
like it's a bit maybe gimmicky or like just some superfluous technology. But to hear that
it's actually affecting your quality of sleep, therefore your quality of life in the morning
and those kinds of things, and also, you know, Archie, your dog's routines as well, then
it kind of points to the power that some of this can have, even if it's simply turning
lights off, right? But it can really change things for you.
Yeah. We also have one that gets to 1115 and just gently dims the lights in the main house
to kind of give us a hint and to make us start feeling more sleepy because if you're in a
bright environment you're less likely to be feeling ready to go to bed, especially if
you're looking at a TV and seeing all that blue light.
So if you dim them and make them more like an orangey color, because most of our lights
are LEDs so we can control the color as well as the brightness. So we change it to make
it warmer and that actually makes you feel more ready to go to bed as well.
You know, it feels like having our environment, you know, our artificial environment, our
homes and things like that, start to mimic the natural environment in ways that works
for our evolved body, right?
Yeah.
It's trying to make it feel more like sunset.
Yeah, exactly. It feels like finally we're figuring that out, right?
We're not fighting it. We're embracing the technology to help us live more naturally
in our homes.
Which is the whole objective of technology, I think, right? Is to up our quality of life.
And so if it can help our circadian rhythms and those kind of things, then bring it on.
Yeah, definitely.
I wanted to ask you a little bit about some educational stuff you're jumping into recently.
Yeah.
Can you give us a tour of that?
So I'm sure lots of people have heard of these like online things, like to learn coding,
coding boot camps. Mine's not an online one that I'm doing. I'm doing an in-person, it's
a course. There's about 20 people in the class. It's a six-month course run by the university
here, University of North Carolina. And I think it's something that I've thought of
in the back of my head for quite a few years now. And I have learned some HTML and CSS
by myself before now and could make a sort of basic webpage and things. And it does,
I think, come from living with Alex. And he went through doing his master's in computer
science and I would sort of proofread his code and debug it a bit for him. And he was
like, you're really good at this.
You have the right brain that just fixes and just sees how it works. And I think you may
be in a different life if I hadn't gone down the music route. I might have been, well,
I probably would have done like maths and science. That was the other things I was doing
at A-level. I was doing like maths, further maths and music and things.
Because they're related, right?
They are related.
Yeah, in many ways.
They're very similar. I was also doing chemistry as well. But I went the music way. But it's
sort of been sitting there in my head since that time when he was doing his master's and
when he was a junior developer. And he was, if he had ever had stuff he brought home,
like it wouldn't work. And I was, no, that means that because logically that's like that.
And he's like, Catherine, you'd be really good at this. And I really enjoy that sort
of puzzle solving. You've probably seen me when I watch TV. I don't actually watch TV.
I sit there and do like, yeah, I do like logic puzzles and things. Beyond Sudoku, that's
a great book. Has all sorts of really slight, all different logic puzzles that are all unusual.
Great book.
It sounds like solving puzzles is something you can't get away from.
Yeah. And so, and with these things, he's like, why don't you just? And so I've tried
to, I've tried to learn some by myself. As I said, a basic understanding of HTML, CSS
and stuff. I could do a basic website. And I tried to learn some Java, but without kind
of some structure or an end goal or just projects to do that I don't have to think of myself.
I've kind of run up against a wall. So I thought let's try more formal things. So I applied
to this coding course and so far it will like week four. So I haven't, I'm not a long way
through the six months, but having deadlines, having three classes a week to go to. So it's
about 10 hours a week of classes and homework you have to do every week and submit on a
Saturday.
Consequences, right?
Yeah. Has actually been very rewarding. But at the beginning of the week, I thought, I
can't, how am I going to make one of them? I can't make it. The last one was making a
password generator. So you had to make a website that if you click on a button to generate,
it generates a password. However many length characters the person wants, if they want
uppercase, lowercase, special, whatever, whatever mixture. And it generates it, it puts it on
the website and you can copy it to the clipboard and onto your phone or your computer or something.
And I, when they first told me that, I was, I can't do that. I mean, I can make a pretty
looking thing that looks like it would do a password generator, but four days later
I did manage to do it. So that must feel pretty cool. Yeah. A little stressful at times that
particular one, but well pushing just outside of your comfort zone is stressful, but in
all of the best ways, right?
And a sense of achievement on Saturday when I finished it at 5pm and I had until midnight.
So I had hours in the bag. A few anyway.
How does that feel for you for your end goal? Like you were mentioning that having something
formal and an end goal like that was a helpful thing. Does it feel like you're going to learn
a heck of a lot in the next six months, minus four weeks?
Yeah, I think I am. So I'm in the first two weeks we've, we did a very brief overview
of HTML and CSS, which I had a bit of experience with as well. And honestly, most of the people
on the course also knew a reasonable amount of. I was quite surprised to find that most
people on the course are not complete. It's not just random people that have never coded
before. So there's at least five people that actually work in the tech industry for their
day jobs and have been sent on it by their companies and things. Someone that works for
GitHub.
Cool. You're in good company, it sounds like.
Yeah, there's somebody that works for a local radio station as a web designer, and she just
did does front end, but they want her to become a full stack stack right developer. So they've
sent her on the course to upgrade her skills. So we'll, by the end, we'll have learned JavaScript,
jQuery, Angular, Bootstrap, SQL. Can't think of anything else. Loads of other stuff. That's
probably the next two months.
Yeah, it sounds like it'll give you like an overview in a kind of a shallow toolbox of
all these different pieces. And then you can kind of dive in from there on the ones that
interest you or, or the ones that are necessary.
I don't think they're ever saying that you're going to be an expert or any of those technologies,
but you'll know enough to know what to Google.
That's so important too, right? Cause it gives you an avenue to, to self-learn.
Yeah. Or know enough to know which, what areas interest you and where you want to go and
where you want to dive in and learn more.
Of course. Well, I can't wait to hear where you're going to dive into in six months.
Yeah. Well, I don't know yet, no ideas, no temptations.
I was surprised to find that this is going to sound very odd for me. I actually really
liked doing some of the front end things and making it look pretty and change for different
size screens and that sort of stuff. Um, and I had more of an eye for that than I thought
I did. I never thought of myself as a particularly creative sort of person, honestly.
I would argue that, but I've, I found that actually really quite pleasant sitting, trying
to work out which sizes and designing, um, and putting it together and styling so far
I've only done, you know, front end stuff. So I don't know yet, but, um, I think I find
the JavaScript not too hard and the logic behind it seems like a simple version of Java,
which I have done a bit of.
When I was impressed by something I picked up on, you showed me your little password
manager, which I've never created one of those. So kudos to you. Um, was that, yeah, it worked
really well and it was beautiful and all of those things, but there's something that you
said that I picked up on, which is you described how maybe it wasn't the best password manager
in terms of security. So I noticed that you're picking up on like the back end of things
that,
yeah, I did. Um, I think it could be eminently hackable cause one way I managed to push my
salt, my password back to the HTML was I put dot inner HTML and that could be very easily
hacked by a very simple script because almost any website could have that particular true.
It wasn't very specific, but it worked well. That's the first step, right? And then you
can harden it from there. But I think the real value there is you're seeing, okay, here's
the next way I can improve this. Um, and that's a huge indicator that you're just going to
keep diving in. I think the way that Alex has that insatiable curiosity is also in you.
It sounds like, right? Yeah. Not, not to the quite the same extent. Um, I don't manage
to have the blinkers on life that he can have sometimes, but the, the great thing I've noticed
is that you're both different and yet you overlap enough that they're really complimentary,
which is really sweet. Yeah. I find this kind of weird because when we first met, we were
both studying music and now we're at a place where we are not really doing music. I mean,
music is still my day job. I teach music six days a week. So, but I don't do music at any
high level anymore. I do very much the basics with small, small child after small child
after small child and the occasional adult and the occasional adult. Yeah. Brent had
a piano lesson with me. My first ever, which is really brilliant. He was really very good.
Thank you. And he should be a musician. Who knows what my six months will bring. Uh, cause
he's definitely got an ear for it. Thank you. Yeah. You can hear when things were wrong.
A lot of people just blindly just keep going. See, and I don't know that. So I was just
being me. Right. Yeah. But you were listening to what you were playing and realized when
the melody didn't sound like you expected it to sound. Or I think at one point just
your chord didn't fit with my baseline. You picked up on that instantly and went, Oh,
I changed. But some people, most people have to learn to listen as they play and are too
focused on just the mechanics of it. I think. Right. Yeah. Hmm. I'm blushing. I don't know.
What's really curious to me in that is that connection between a lot of these different
topics we've been talking about, like you mentioned music, you've been, you know, you
have quite a bit of education in music. Can you walk us through that? I've been playing
since I was very small, about six. I went to a junior conservatoire as a teenager in
London and traveled down to London every Saturday. I went to junior Guildhall, um, followed by
a scholarship to RNCM, Royal Northern College of Music, where I did an undergraduate degree
and I did a master's in solo performance. Um, graduated in the middle of a recession
as a freelance musician. Yeah, right. Not the easiest thing. Yeah. Yes. I'm a solo bassoonist.
Ready for hire. I spent a year working in Sainsbury's and doing the odd freelance gig
that didn't pay enough to live off. That's how it goes with freelancing at first. Yeah.
Um, the economy just seemed to be getting worse. This was like 2008. Oh gosh. And made
the decision because the UK government at the time were giving very generous bursaries
to train to be a teacher. So I did a teaching PGCE and since then I've mostly just been
doing classroom music teaching. Um, we moved to London, uh, I was doing some of that, the
occasional freelance gigs still make a little bit of money and some teaching at the evenings
and weekends. Um, but yeah, it wasn't, it wasn't where I intended to become, but I think
that's what most people, I think I'm sure most people say that, um, about what they
hope to achieve and what they do actually achieve. I think what's probably important
there is being flexible and open to other options, right? Yeah. I really quite enjoy,
can enjoy teaching, sometimes enjoy the teaching. Okay. Um, what I was going to wrap that in
with was how it's curious to me how both you and Alex have a musical background. Um, and
you both seem to enjoy this problem solving of puzzles and that kind of thing, or at least
exploring them. Um, and it's related now a little bit to the tech world as well. Do you
think like there's something about a musical mind that ties all of that together? I don't
know if it's a musical mind, but maybe they're just kind of similar, like brain patterns.
Yeah. Okay. Um, like pattern recognition or something. Yeah, I think so. I actually think,
um, at least some of the coding I've been doing is more creative than music, but I did
very much classical music. I've never really dabbled in jazz or I've never learned to play
the guitar or anything like that. So I was very much hardcore classical orchestra sort
of music, which is very strict and full of rules. And you'll realize that you've been
in an orchestra rehearsal for three hours and haven't said a single word because you're
not allowed to talk. Right. You mentioned that it ha it feels like it has more creativity.
Um, where are the areas where you felt like you've been able to be creative? Cause usually
in education, uh, you know, you have very specific problems to solve. Um, but you feel
like you've had some wiggle room in there. I think that the problems are specific, but
there's been several different solutions. And I've gone down one route and realized
or seen that there could be several routes to achieve the same outcome. Um, sometimes
I haven't seen all of them and I'm like, oh, oh wow, they've done it a completely different
way to me. That's interesting. Um, so part of the thing in the course is they quite often
give you like a 20 minute, very short exercise, um, fix this or make this, or they give you
a webpage and they say, okay, make the buttons actually do what the buttons are supposed
to do or something. Um, and the way I've done it has been one way and the way the teacher
has done it is he sort of codes it out at the same time and then he lets you see it
after the 20 minutes. So he stands there typing away, doing the same exercise as you are.
And the way he's done it is completely different. And the way the person next to me has done
it is completely different. And yet the end goal is achieved. Yeah. At one time I even
managed to, I think more elegant one than the teacher. And I put some mine in like three
lines of code in a nice little loop and he wrote all his out. Admittedly, I think he
was distracted by eating Chick-fil-A at the time. But I think there's like, I find that
to be, uh, it's something I really appreciate in coding. I did a little bit myself and um,
that it can be so creative. Like most people who haven't had a taste of it yet don't see
it as very creative. It's like, you know, you sit in front of a chair and type into
a screen all day. But the reality is if you can wrap your mind around that problem and
just dive right in, that creativity is like such an amazing outlet, right? To express
yourself in many ways. Um, even though it may not seem like that to someone who hasn't
had that opportunity. Yeah. I don't think I've got that until I'd dived in a little,
a little deeper. Well, and I imagine the more complex your problems are, the more interesting
your solution could be. And the more creative it maybe it needs to be. Yeah. Like sometimes
the creative solutions are the most elegant looking ones. And sometimes they just look
a bit janky. You hope to aim for the first one. Yeah, of course. Sometimes you have to
get to the second one before you can loop back around. Yeah. That's great. I wanted
to mention, uh, also that you and Alex had a bit of a, an anniversary yesterday, an unusual
anniversary. Um, you had, you were, we were discussing that hard drive failure. Oh, yeah.
That happened. And so Alex was telling me that, uh, and if you listen to the brunch
that I did with Alex, he mentions this specific hard drive failure that happened to him on
a Seagate drive. Was it eight years ago? Yes. Um, I don't think we're allowed to say the
word Seagate in this house. And, uh, and that changed everything. Yeah. So how did that
change everything? Um, so before that he was quite happy having, I don't think it occurred
to him or us not to just have stuff, store it on a hard drive. It was as simple as that
until this hard drive started going click. Yes. You know the sound too. And we lost everything
that was on it. Oh. And it was one of a batch. They bought all the same hard drives and then
the others started making click noises. And Alex was thinking, Oh no, I'm going to lose
everything. Because the first one, all we lost was some ripped CDs or something. Oh,
that's lucky. But they knew that on the other ones he had photographs on and he had things
that were completely irreplaceable. So the hunt began for a better solution and he bought
like a Synology NAS and, um, that then led to him thinking, no, this is, this isn't the
best solution either. And this was back in, I don't know, about 2008. No, this would be
2009, I think. Um, when I was doing teacher training. Of course. So I was pretty much
out of the house and working all the time because if anyone else has done a PGCE in
the UK, it's pretty full on. Okay. Um, so he was left with time and empty thought space
to come up with a better solution. And he met online, met some, a chap called Steven
from Georgia. And I always call him the dog cause he had an avatar of the dog. So in our
house, if you ever hear conversation about the dog, it's not actually our dog. No. Um,
so they started talking online and Alex just went into this headlong, deep dive into virtualization
and having, um, virtual machines on his computer as his way of, um, solving problems and having
multiple systems running and having, um, hard drives and backup hard drives. And, um, I
can't remember the name of that system that he uses. It probably is constantly evolving.
It has changed a few times and I've had it explained and I've been drawn diagrams and
I just can't remember the name of it. And so that he was working as a genius at the
Apple store at the time, just fixing computers, which he still likes to do. He was loving
repairing my X250 that I got recently. He was having so much fun. Um, he's, he's now
decided that he's going to buy broken computers and put them in our bonus room closet and
just fix them when he feels bored or in need of some therapy or doing something physical
with his hands. Um, so, and he did, he did all the virtualization and storage stuff and
nazes with different dividers and I don't know, you can see how much I know about this
stuff, um, in his own time. And he did all this virtualization stuff and he got really,
really, really into it. And to the point where he was like, I need to know everything there
could possibly be to know about this back in the day before Docker, before containers,
before most of these things were done. And so then he had to play with hardware because
a lot of the hardware you could buy at that point, you couldn't do virtualization on it.
Oh, okay. Um, not like today when most golden ages are in, right? Yeah. Um, but back then
he had, he had to swap out his motherboard for a different one for one that, and then
they had to work out what was compatible with it. And so we went through a whole computer
building era where we had to find the best components that we could actually do the virtualization
that he wanted to do. And this conversation with this guy and all this learning led to
him saying, yeah, I'm a genius. It's fun. I like fixing computers, but this isn't what
I want to do. Um, his grandmother had passed away not that long in that period, not long
before that. And she had left him some money, like 5,000 pounds. And it was actually his
mom's idea. And she said, why don't you go back to university? And by the way, did you
know that the course at the university of East Anglia is 5,000 pounds? That seems lucky
or serendipitous. Yeah. So it just seemed like something that had to be done. And that
kind of kickstarted his change of career. He still kept on being really interested in
all the storage and still is, always has been. And when Docker came on the scene, he jumped
in on that. If you look behind you, you can probably see the DockerCon whale. We're in
Alex's office. Yeah. From back when he was so excited about that though. Um, he took,
we both went to Barcelona to go to DockerCon cause he was desperate to go and find out
everything container. Um, that's 2015, 2014. I don't know. It says on it somewhere. And
all of that led to where you are now, right? Which is you've immigrated here and jumped
from one, you know, from one continent to the next. Yes. Um, and now you're in the US
and how is it being here? Uh, like, is there a culture difference? I know you mentioned
before we had this conversation, you asked, should I try to speak more American during
our conversation? Well, I've in the last year, I've got used to translating my inner thoughts,
just the odd word, the odd concept and changing them for the American version, especially
since I teach children, um, as young as four or five. If I started talking about my primary
school or a rubber, they would have no idea what I was talking about. So I've trained
myself to translate like, Oh, when I was in sixth grade at elementary school, even though
I didn't, but translating it, translating all my words that have different ones. So
you've picked up on like where people's give you strange looks, which words people don't
quite.
Most of the time. Occasionally, uh, I say one and everyone looks at you and it's ah,
what's one I haven't. The other day I said paracetamol. Oh yeah. I know not what that
is. Um, I think it's a set a minute friend here. Oh yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Right. Yeah. I
said that a couple of times and I realized that the person I was talking to was just
looking at me, what's she talking about? I don't think they knew if it was a British
thing or if it was just them not knowing something and they didn't want to say, I was actually
talking about Calpol, which is paracetamol in like sugar syrup that you give to little
kids because her, her two year old daughter was having earache and I was like, Oh, in
England we'll just give them some Calpol. She was like, what's Calpol? What's paracetamol?
I find those cultural differences like in language, they're pretty obvious, but there
are also like cultural differences, which you may or may not have picked up on yet in
like different, um, technological communities. Like I think what you'll begin to learn in
your education is like each, um, each community based around different technologies have like
these words and these like tendencies that are culture in themselves. And sometimes you
have to like, uh, do the translation between them. If you're, if you're working between
navigate between them from one to another, which I find totally fascinating. And I don't
know why that is, but you know, I guess that's us as humans. We always want to put in our
own personality on everything. Or no, we've both come up to the, come up with the same
idea separately. I think that's, I think, I feel like that's a way a lot of the reason
between the British American things different because they've just come up with it separately
and given it different words. I think the words are easier to deal with than like the
cultural differences. Can you give me an example of a cultural difference that feels trickier?
I have to remember not to swear as much. Right. Especially in the south. Okay. Um, it's fine
with your friends, but in Britain, I wouldn't feel too worried about swearing in front of
like a parent or something. Right. Not obviously about, um, but I swear it's slipping in. I
wouldn't, but I'm very careful not to cause it would, you'd get an odd look. A different
reaction here. Yeah. It's like less accepted. Yeah. I feel like that. I've realized that
British people swear a lot. So you're learning things about yourself as well. Yeah. I thought
it was normal. Um, until I realized that other people didn't. Right. And like the conversations
I have with my, my parents, I see people here like your parents like that. Yeah. Where that's
just totally commonplace. Yeah. I think you'd find probably a similar reaction in
Canada. Um, is that we approach the, the American acceptance of swearing, um, which I wonder
like, does it make it more potent when you do use it? You know, if you're using it in
regular conversation, does it lose a little bit of the, I think it does actually. Yeah.
But if you hear someone else, then they don't normally cause they're a nice Southern person
that can be brought up well and are very polite and you hear them, you're like, Whoa, that's
kind of a shock. Right. That's fascinating. Yeah. I wanted to ask you a question. If you
had an ask for anybody who's listening, something you'd like them to try or think about or do
perhaps. Um, is there something that comes to mind? So one of the things I was, I was
doing before I moved here, um, was I was actually a humanist celebrant. Really? Can you describe
what a humanist celebrant is for? Um, so they conduct, in my case, funerals, but they can
do baby namings and weddings. Um, you will also need a person in the UK from the council.
If you're doing having a wedding, they haven't had it, so you don't need that yet, but, um,
and they could up ceremonies and they have particular worldview that is not related to
government and it's not related to religion and just believes that you should be good
for your own sake, for the sake of the wider community that you live in. Um, the world
community, your local community and that, yeah, it's devoid from other things and it's
sort of a way of looking at the world and being good to animals and humans and plants
and just trying to be a good person. So being truly all inclusive. Yeah. Um, I would say
if anybody hasn't heard of that, that they should look it up and check it out cause I
think it's amazing. Well, can I ask you a little bit more about it? Yeah, sure. Um,
well first, what attracted you to, to diving into this topic? And, uh, honestly, my, it
was when my dad died and he was very staunchly, aggressively atheist. I'm not saying humanists,
I'm not saying I am. Um, but we were struggling to think of what to do for his funeral service
and not to include anything that he wouldn't want. Because they're typically tied to a
religion or some kind of. They usually are tied to a religion even now. And you get these
people that have not really been a church in 20 years and they end up having a priest
that doesn't know them. So do a funeral service. And that led us to searching on the internet
and finding out about these humanist services, which can be, they're very, very bespoke.
Um, and they can be anything you want and they can show the person's personality. Um,
there's been some, when I did my training, I heard about all these random ones of people
got brought up in their, um, their rally car, um, and their coffin was sort of jammed in
the back and they drove it into the crematorium and they had no speeches, but they just had
40 minutes of metal music. Yeah. That's what I wanted. Fine. Wow. So it sounds like a way
of really personalizing the entire process. Yeah. It can be whatever, which sounds like
that's kind of the point anyways, right? Yeah. Um, so that's about the type of services you
get for the humanists do. But when I found out more about it, I realized it wasn't just
a service that you could go online and order a person to come and do your funeral service.
Although we did have a chap come to our house and he was absolutely lovely. It was, he was
a retired vet and um, as in veterinarian, not as in veteran. Um, and see translation.
Yes. Uh, he came to our house and he was one of the nicest people ever. And he was, and
we could just, he let us do what we wanted and wrote this unbelievably pleasant tribute
of a man he hadn't met, but he, he talked to us for like an hour and a half and found
out everything he could and just got a picture of my dad and made this wonderful thing. That
sounds like quite a skill in itself. It's like getting to know someone that deeply and
to be able to reflect their personality in a way that even their loved ones find touching.
That sounds like a real gift.
And that was most of what the training was focused on was actually that interviewing
skills and um, writing skills and taking that information and writing it into a document.
Um, but when I found out more that it wasn't just a, you know, pay for a man to come to
do your thing, that it was actually just this whole way of life that it, it isn't a religion,
it isn't a political, it's just a, a view of the world. That's really very nice. And
you can pick and choose and you don't have to, you're not like, I am a humanist. Like
it's just, you don't go to, it's not like you go to meetings. It's not like becoming
a Jehovah's witness or something that you have to assign yourself to this. It's just
a way of looking at the world. And it's just a very, very uplifting way of looking at the
world. They believe you have one life and it's up to you to do the best you can and
to enjoy it and to live it the best you can and to, and um, not worry about the rules
of a religion or of a country. It's to worry about the people closest to you, the animals,
the plants, your environment, are you doing the best you can for them? Are you improving
the lives of those around you? Yeah. What an important question for all of us, right?
Yeah. Um, with, you know, you can apply it pretty broadly too. Like just as you were
speaking, I was thinking, okay, you could apply that to your closest loved ones, of course.
But when you mentioned things like environment and plants and animals and things like that,
it feels like, okay, well you could apply that also to Archie, your dog, right? And
you can apply it to the direct environment around you, like your yard or something like
that, but also to the greater environment. Like look at what is a hot topic now of, you
know, the climate crisis and things like that. So, um, it sounds almost like a personalized
philosophy. Yeah. In a way that you get to craft and change as you evolve as well.
Definitely. That you can apply in a really positive way. Yeah. And it's not prescriptive.
Right. And it's not rules sent down from somebody or something above. It's from,
you're only doing it for yourself. It's like introspective. Yeah. Well, since I went through
this journey, I've consciously found myself thinking, no, that that's being a bit selfish.
No, you can do better than that. And trying to be a better, nicer person. So it sounds like it's
really pushed you in all the right directions. Yeah. In many ways, you know, and you get to
define what right means in that context. Yeah, exactly. Well, thank you that I'm going to have
to dive in more with that, but that sounds like a really important place to put your mind and heart
to start some kind of adventure. Right? Yeah, definitely. That's great. Um,
Katherine, thank you so much for sitting down with me and doing this chat. It's been
super lovely and I hope people really enjoy our conversation. It's gone in places that we didn't
expect and that's the best part. I think that's really a treat. So, so thanks for being on the
journey with me.